
         CONTROLLING WHAT IS SHOWN IN THE USER INTERFACE
         ===============================================

The gvfs-udisks2-volume-monitor process is responsible for the disks,
media, mounts and fstab entries shown in the desktop user
interface. In particular, the Desktop Shell (gnome-shell), the Files
application (nautilus) as well as any other application use the GLib
APIs, is using information from this process.

In general, disks or media with mountable filesystems are shown, as
are fstab entries. These are collectively referred to as "devices" in
the following.

A device is either mounted (in which case its directory is known) or
it's not. If it's not mounted, then its directory is known only if its
referenced in the /etc/fstab file. Similarly, the options for a device
is either the options the device is currently mounted with or, if not
currently mounted, options from its /etc/fstab if one is available.

If the directory for a device is known and outside /media, $HOME
(typically /home/foo) or $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR (typically /run/user/foo)
then the device is not shown. Additionally, if any of component
directories starts with a dot ("."), the device is not shown either.
This policy may be overriden by use of the options comment=gvfs-show
and comment=gvfs-hide.

The name and icon to use for a device is chosen according to certain
heuristics - for example, if a device has a filesystem label, it is
used - if not, some other characteristic is used. The options
comment=gvfs-name=<value> and comment=gvfs-icon=<value> can be used to
override this policy with <value> being an URL-encoded string. For
icons, the Icon Naming Specification

 http://standards.freedesktop.org/icon-naming-spec/icon-naming-spec-latest.html

is used.

Users are advised to use /dev/disk/* symlinks for /etc/fstab entries
instead of the kernel names sda, sdb and so on.

The Disks application provides an user interface to easily edit
/etc/fstab entries including these options, see

 http://people.freedesktop.org/~david/palimpsest-fstab-gvfs-show-option.png

EXAMPLES
--------

# forcibly hide device in user interface
/dev/disk/by-id/ata-HITACHI_HTS723232A7A364_E3834563KRG2HN-part1   /home/davidz/Data  auto  defaults,comment=gvfs-hide 0 0

# forcibly show device in user interface and with name "My Movies"
/dev/disk/by-uuid/4CAE8E5B5AF47502   /Movies  auto   defaults,comment=gvfs-show,comment=gvfs-name=My%20Movies

# forcibly show NFS mount in user interface
10.200.0.210:/tank/media  /mnt/Filer  nfs4  default,users,noauto,comment=gvfs-show  0 0
